$Revision$

OpenXPKI Charter

1. Mission

The major goal of the OpenXPKI foundation is to support the
OpenXPKI community to develop free PKI software.

The foundation forms the organizational base of the project and
supports the community with management of the project's name, 
license and infrastructure. This includes organization
of support and promotion events like workshops and conferences.

Individuals owning or controlling infrastucture components 
(such as the domain openxpki.org and basic infrastructure 
rights on the development platforms like Berlios or SourceForge)
must guarantee to every board member that they will comply with
all decisions taken by the board.
The commitment must be legally binding and hency may either be a signed 
paper document or an electronic document that has been digitally signed 
according to Digital Signature Law of the individual's country.
Failure to comply with this requirement implies that the individual
must return the corresponding rights or ownership back to the project
(i. e. an individual complying with the requirements).

2. Roles

OpenXPKI recognizes three categories of people - users, active developers
and board members. Users are all people using OpenXPKI. Board
members are members of the board as defined below. Active
developers are people who have been actively developing OpenXPKI
software within the past two years. The term "devlopment" explicitly
includes all development related tasks like testing, bug fixing, 
documenting and writing code. Hence e. g. documentation contributors are
also considered to be developers.
All people who are accepted as active developers are publicly listed in 
a file. If you think you should be on the list simply write a notice 
to the developer mailing list.

3. Board

The project board consists of elected members. There are two
categories of members. One group of members consists of active
developers, the other group is formed by all users. Hence developers
are also users and thus can vote twice.

A minimum of 2/3 of the elected board members must consist of the 
'active developers' group.
The rationale behind this requirement is that the developers can
make decision if all of them agree on an issue. In this case it
is not possible for the users to block the decision.

A maximum of 1/3 of the elected board members must consist of the
'users' group (which may include developers as well).
This group should represent the interests of the users. If the developers 
find no consense then this group's vote should be a deciding factor.

The maximum number of board members is 12. The normal legislative
period is 2 years.

4. Election

The voting will happen on the OpenXPKI voting mailing list.
Currently this is OpenXPKI-vote@lists.berlios.de

4.1. Users

There may be no more than four user representatives in the board.
A user can only give one vote per candidate. The candidates with the
most votes win.

4.2. Active Developers

There may be no more than eight active developer representatives in the 
board. Every active developer has eight votes. An active developer can 
only give one vote per candidate. The candidates with the most votes win.

4.3. Protective clauses

If there are more than two votes from one organization (company, 
research institute, university and the like) then only two votes are 
counted. 
If there are more than two votes from one organization, the
management of this organization can decide which votes shall 
be counted. If this does not happen then the old board decide about the
counting.

If there are less than eight active developer representatives
in the board then the number of the user representatives will be
automatically reduced to balance the board again.

If a board member leaves the board, a new election only for this
position will be held. The term of the newly elected board member 
ends with the legislative period of the other board members.

A board member can be dismissed if all other board members agree unanimously.
If the dismissed board member is elected again then the next dismissal 
can only occur after at least after six months.

5. Responsibilities

5.1. Community

The community makes all decisions related to the charter and elects the board.

If the charter is to be changed, a ballot must happen on this.
The following requirements must be met for the change to be accepted:

* 50 percent of all active developers must vote in favor of a charter
  change.
* A minimum of 2/3 of all voting active developers must vote in favor of
  the charter change.
* A minimum of 2/3 of all voting users (including the active
  developers) must vote in favor of the charter change.
* Similarly to elections of board members only two votes per organization 
  are allowed.

5.2. Board

The board recognizes two types of responsibilities - critical issues
and normal issues.

Critical issues are the license and the name of OpenXPKI. Any
decisions related to these issues must be made by the board
with majority of at minimum 2/3 of all board members.

All other issues are normal issues. The decisions will be made
by the board with the simple majority of all board members.
Normal issues can be administrative permissions, workshops and
infrastructure issues for example.

Every vote for a decision of the board must be publicly
documented on the openxpki voting list.
